# Block vs Method
method will have name, return type and curly braces and we call the method with name only.

Block -no need for name, return type.


method --> set of instruction [big instruction]
block is a subset of method
block --> small set of instruction.[example-->for loops]


# static -->Prerequisities 

* without main method static block will not be executed.

* if we dont have any object in the main method then non static block will not be executed.

* if we create a object in main method non-static be called.

* when ever we create a object constructor will be called automatically. but the non-static block will be executed first.

* when we cannot create 2 object with same reference.

* when we create 2 object the the non static block will be executed once and how many times the object is created that many times the non-static and the constructor will be called.

* we can have more than one static block.

* if we change the order of the static block it will be executed first.

* we can call the static method with class name or object reference name but call it with class name mostly prefereable.



# Also Read this

* Static block is used for initializing the static variables.

This block gets executed when the class is loaded in the memory. 

A class can have multiple Static blocks.

* static blocks are automatically called as soon as class is loaded in memory 


* Can we print something on the console without creating main() method?

yes using the another class

It is very important question from the interview’s perceptive point. The answer is yes we can print if we are using JDK version 1.6 or previous and if after that  it will throw an. error. 


* Static blocks can also be executed before constructors.


# Reference for the static block
In Java, static members, including static blocks, belong to the class rather than to any particular instance of the class. This means they are associated with the class itself, not with any specific object created from the class.

Static members are initialized when the class is loaded into memory, and they exist independently of any instances of the class. Therefore, they can be accessed directly using the class name, without the need for an object reference.

Here's why they are accessed with the class name:

1. **Memory Efficiency**: Static members are shared among all instances of a class and can be accessed without creating an instance of the class. This saves memory because they're stored only once per class, rather than once per object.

2. **Class Level**: Static members are associated with the class rather than with individual objects. They represent properties or behaviors that are intrinsic to the class itself, rather than to any particular instance of the class.

3. **Initialization**: Since static members are initialized when the class is loaded, they are readily available without the need for object instantiation. Accessing them via the class name reinforces this initialization behavior.

4. **Visibility**: It also helps to distinguish between static members and instance members when reading the code. Using the class name to access static members makes it clear that these members are not dependent on any particular instance.

Here's an example to illustrate:

```java
public class MyClass {
    public static int staticVariable = 10;
    public int instanceVariable = 20;
    
    static {
        // Static block
        System.out.println("Static block initialized");
    }
    
    public static void staticMethod() {
        System.out.println("Static method called");
    }
    
    public void instanceMethod() {
        System.out.println("Instance method called");
    }
}

public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        // Accessing static member
        System.out.println(MyClass.staticVariable);
        MyClass.staticMethod();
        
        // Creating an instance to access instance members
        MyClass obj = new MyClass();
        System.out.println(obj.instanceVariable);
        obj.instanceMethod();
    }
}
```




