# JAVA is a OOP Language:
Object oriented programming language
* Object
* class
* Inheritance
* Polymorphism
* Encapsulation
* Abstarction

# class and object 
---------------------------------
Presentation-Template

class - Template/ Blueprint
Properties,Actions

Object-Memory Representation
Properties,Actions

slide - Object

Class specific properties,behaviours.

Object specific properties,behaviours.

Object - Memory representation of a class.

Object is a realtime time entity.
Object cannot exist without class.
Object is representation of a class. or [ instance of a class]
Object is a combination of states and behaviour.

[example google chrome and tabs]

1.gear,enginee,cluch,accelarator,break,seat--vehicle
2.speaker,projecter,seat,ticket counter--theatre


class is a collection of object or group of object or classification of object--[class]
-----------------------------------

# Encapsulation:--> Data Binding (டேட்டா  வை  காட்டிவைபது )
sharing data with only specific person

personal-neighbours-relative-public


changePIn-personal
buying Bike -personal + neibouring class + callby petname +perosnal name + nickname
------------------------------------------------

# Inheritance ( parent child relationship)
An object of one class act as object of another class.

Smart Tv- class
MI-Smart Tv
Remote Controller
(suppose the remote is not working)

Mobiles -class
Redmi Mobile is acting as Remote Controller for MI TV.
-->App -Remote Controlller
-------------------------------------------------

# Polymorphism 
poly-many
morphism-many faces

depends upon the input the output changes

1) based on input (method overloading)(compile time polymorphism)

drawing(same activity)
draw(yellow)
draw(red)

2) based on who is doing (method overriding)(run time polymorphism)

kumar.write()
arun.write()
(both have differnt handwriting)
---------------------------------------------------

# Abstraction -(data hiding)


laptop -->power button press

keyboard,monitor,os-booting

showing only necessary data and hiding the unwanted data.











